+++
date = '2025-07-31'
location = 'SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA'
title = 'Everything is Cringe'
bsky = "https://bsky.app/profile/jamie.sh/post/3lu6rfqphs227"
+++

Believe it or not - I used to be full of optimism. I grew up in Plymouth, UK (the original one) - and it's a very slow town. There isn’t a huge amount going on down there - the counties of Devon and Cornwall are, in England, often the places people go to retire. The average salary is £39.8k ($51.5k USD) - which was much less in around 2010 when I was sitting in my mom's garden debating what I wanted to do with my life at age 20. I had a pretty misspent youth, but I loved computers - and I loved videogames. I'd even worked at one of the only web design agencies in the southwest of England - as an apprentice - for a huge £2/hour (£80/week).

I wanted to make videogames - that was my end goal at the time. I liked playing them, I liked computers and had dabbled a little bit with programming and web design. Naturally, the most logical thing was to get a Computer Science degree - so I did. In my final year, I built a video game analytics platform for Epic Games' latest videogame _Paragon_ (this was before Fortnite). I'd reverse-engineered the game client, scraped all of the matches, and put them all on a website where you could see how you did and where you might need to improve. I started the /r/Paragon subreddit and ran the largest Discord server. Epic even flew me to North Caroliona (Epic HQ) and Berlin for Paragon events. 35-year-old me would have called this 'cringe'.

In 2016 - my website caught the eye of Wikia (later rebranded as Fandom), as they were looking to expand outside of their core wiki platform - and a small while later I was acqui-hired. My career trajectory had taken off just after graduation, and a couple years later I had the opportunity to work in the US on an L1-B visa for a six-figure salary. Very cool!

The preamble is important to understand how I got here. I was a very positive person who had a lot of luck. I've always wanted to build new things. Since 2016 (9 years ago) I've probably built over 50 "new products" - at least to 90%. They always say that the last 10% takes 90% of the time, and that has definitely been true for me. When I hit that wall I would lose my interest, and eventually find something else to build. I would learn a ton, and I've done this so many times I can spin up an almost-complete full stack app in record time - but I would never finish.

I recently quit a job I wasn't enjoying, and I've been trying to be a little bit more introspective about my actions - to try to regain some of my optimism. I think a lot about the projects I've started and stopped, and why I never put them out there. The biggest reason, I think, is that I don’t want to be _cringe_. I didn't want to be the guy pushing my latest thing, trying to convince people it's the next best thing. I'm fairly online, so I see this daily. Everyone is pushing something. On X, Instagram, TikTok - people crave attention - and people do a lot of really embarrassing things to get it. I see people dancing in public. I see people filming themselves at the gym. I see the crypto bros, the AI entrepreneurs, the course sellers, the digital nomads, the fitness influencers, the LinkedIn 'thought leaders' - all pushing their agenda and products. Internally, I’ve labeled these people _cringe_, without much further thought. But really, they’re grinding. They’re trying to grow their reach in an environment that is public, chaotic, and open to criticism — by lurkers like me who label them _cringe_ and move on.

In 9 years though, I haven't launched anything - _they have_. I haven't put anything out there, because I don't want to be embarrassing. What if I launch something and nobody uses it? That would be _cringe_. What if I think something is really cool - and later it isn't? That would be _cringe_. It's like when I look at code I wrote a few years ago - it's embarrassing - what was I thinking! But I haven't launched anything in 9 years (outside of my day job), and I wish I had. To me, at least - that's the most _cringe_ thing I can think of. Not doing things because you fear you're not good enough. Or that no one will care. Or that you'll embarrass yourself. That's a really sad thing.

I'm not a particularly gifted writer, but this is my first step. The second will be launching something - even if it's not perfect. Because not doing anything? That's worse than being a little _cringe_.